In this video,
we'll cover the last four domains:
identity and access management,
security assessment and testing,
security operations, and
software development security.
The fifth domain is identity and
access management, or IAM.
And it's focused on access and
authorization to keep data secure by
making sure users follow established
policies to control and manage assets.
As an entry-level analyst, it's essential
to keep an organization's systems and data
as secure as possible by ensuring user
access is limited to what employees need.
Basically, the goal of IAM is to reduce
the overall risk to systems and data.
For example, if everyone at a company
is using the same administrator login,
there is no way to track who
has access to what data.
In the event of a breach,
separating valid user activity from
the threat actor would be impossible.
There are four main components to IAM.
Identification is when a user verifies
who they are by providing a user name,
an access card, or
biometric data such as a fingerprint.
Authentication is the verification
process to prove a person's
identity, such as entering a password or
PIN.
Authorization takes place after a user's
identity has been confirmed and
relates to their level of access, which
depends on the role in the organization.
Accountability refers to monitoring and
recording user actions,
like login attempts, to prove systems and
data are used properly.
The sixth security domain is
security assessment and testing.
This domain focuses on conducting
security control testing,
collecting and analyzing data, and
conducting security audits to monitor for
risks, threats, and vulnerabilities.
Security control testing can help
an organization identify new and
better ways to mitigate threats,
risks, and vulnerabilities.
This involves examining organizational
goals and objectives, and
evaluating if the controls being used
actually achieve those goals.
Collecting and analyzing security data
regularly also helps prevent threats and
risks to the organization.
Analysts might use security control
testing evaluations and security
assessment reports to improve existing
controls or implement new controls.
An example of implementing a new control
could be requiring the use of multi-factor
authentication to better protect the
organization from potential threats and risks.
Next, let's discuss security operations.
The security operations domain is
focused on conducting investigations and
implementing preventative measures.
Investigations begin once a security
incident has been identified.
This process requires a heightened
sense of urgency in order to minimize
potential risks to the organization.
If there is an active attack,
mitigating the attack and
preventing it from escalating further
is essential for
ensuring that private information
is protected from threat actors.
Once the threat has been neutralized,
the collection of digital and physical
evidence to conduct
a forensic investigation will begin.
A digital forensic investigation
must take place to identify
when, how, and
why the breach occurred.
This helps security teams determine
areas for improvement and
preventative measures that can be
taken to mitigate future attacks.
The eighth and final security domain
is software development security.
This domain focuses on using
secure coding practices.
As you may remember,
secure coding practices are recommended guidelines
that are used to create
secure applications and services.
The software development lifecycle is
an efficient process used by teams to
quickly build software products and
features.
In this process, security
is an additional step.
By ensuring that each phase of the
software development lifecycle undergoes
security reviews, security can be fully
integrated into the software product.
For example, performing a secure
design review during the design phase,
secure code reviews during
the development and testing phases,
and penetration testing during
the deployment and implementation phase
ensures that security is embedded into
the software product at every step.
This keeps software secure and
sensitive data protected, and
mitigates unnecessary
risk to an organization.
Being familiar with these domains can
help you better understand how they're
used to improve the overall
security of an organization and
the critical role security teams play.
Next, we'll discuss security threats,
risks, and vulnerabilities,
including ransomware, and introduce
you to the three layers of the web.